{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1. Write a ruby program to convert numbers to word\
2. Write a ruby program to find a given input is number or string?\
  * Shouldn't use predefined methods\
  * No need to check for fraction.\
  Ex:\
    '123232' ==> number\
    'Rs 123' ==> string\
    '-1213' ==> number\
    '+1213' ==> number\
    'test' ==> string\
\
3. Write a ruby program to print numbers in comma seperated.\
  Ex:\
    '123.232' => 123.23\
    '1231' => '1,231.00'\
    '12345' => '12,345.00'\
    '1234567' => '1,234,567.00'\
\
4. Write a ruby program to find longest line in the given input.\
\
5. Write a ruby program to emulate calculator functonality\
  Ex:\
    Enter number a\
    Enter number b\
    Choose any one of the following operator\
    1. Add\
    2. Subtract\
    3. Multiply\
    4. Division\
    5. Modulo\
    6. Exit\
\
    It should keep working till user presses 6. For invalid options, script should print a alert message and continue to ask digits.\
    it should handle 'divide by zero error'\
\
  6. Write a ruby program to emulate #to_i()\
\
  7. Write a ruby program to remove single line ruby comment. Input of this script will be a ruby code.\
    It shouldn't remove comment withing single/double quotes.\
\
===============\
\
                              Ruby Evaluation - II\
                              --------------------\
Total: 75\
Duration: 2 hrs\
\
I. True or False ( 10 x 1 = 10 )\
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
1. Ruby variables can be used without any declaration\
2. Variable name itself denotes its scope\
3. @@_ is valid instance variable\
4. Name = 'Matz' is a valid example for local variable\
5. "def even?number;end"  will raise error\
6. a method returns the value of the last statement executed in the method\
7. In ruby method, There's no limit to the number of parameters.\
8. Right to Left is the sequence in which the parameters are put on the stack\
9. a = 21, 12; puts a # =>  21 true?\
10. `puts('hello world')` will print 'hello world' on '$>'\
\
II. Answer the following questions in details. You are expected to write whatever you know about respective questions (13 x 5 = 65)\
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
1. What is global variable?\
2. What is the difference between global variable and Constants\
3. Description needed for following global variables\
  $/  # The input record separator (eg #gets). Defaults to newline.\
  $\\  # The output record separator (eg #print and IO#write). Default is nil.\
  $0  # Contains the name of the script being executed. May be assignable.\
\
$$  # The process number of the Ruby running this script. Read only.\
\
$:  # See $LOAD_PATH.\
$!  # The exception object passed to #raise.\
\
4. Explain about predefined Global constants. Give examples\
\
5. Explain the difference between ::COLOURS and Colour::NAMES\
\
6. What is pseudo variable. Give examples\
\
7. Write a ruby program to emulate how 'cat' command  works without any arguments.\
\
8. Explain about STDIN, STDOUT and STDERR\
\
9. When will you define methods ending with any of these characters "?", "!" and "=" ?\
\
10. What is alias method? Explain with an example\
\
11. Will the following code raise exception? Explain\
  def mtd(a=99, b=a+1)\
   [a, b]\
  end\
\
12. Explain about ruby methods with default arguments\
\
13. Explain about splat arugments with examples\
\
============\
\
\
Answer all the questions below ( 35 x 2 = 70)\
==============================================\
\
1. Explain about Ruby programming language\
\
2. What is the version of ruby your using?, how will you find out?\
\
3. How will you print "Hello world" string using options and command line argument?\
\
4. How will you create string object ?\
\
5. What is the difference between string enclosed by '' and "" ?\
\
6. Explain about Ruby comments\
\
7. What is Statement delimiter ? What are the Statement delimiters available in Ruby?\
\
8.\
  if a = 1; b = 2; c = 3;  d = 4\
  e = c + d = b * a\
  what is the value of e?\
\
9. Which of the following is the correct order of evaluation for the given expression?\
    a = w % x / y * z;\
  a) % / * =\
  b) / * % =\
  c) = % * /\
  d) * % / =\
\
\
10. c = 2 ^ 3\
    c = ?\
\
11. a = 2\
    a >> 1 ?\
    a = 5\
    a << 1 ?\
\
12.\
   x = 0, y = 2, z = 3;\
   a = x & y | z;\
   b = x && y || z\
   a = ?\
   b = ?\
\
13. x = 5.3 % 2\
    x = ?\
\
14. Which of the following is not an arithmetic operation?\
    a) a *= 10;\
    b) a /= 10;\
    c) a != 10;\
    d) a %= 10;\
\
\
15. a = 10, b = 5, c = 5;\
    d = a == (b + c);\
    d = ??\
\
\
16. x = 3, y = 2;\
    z = x /= y %= 2;\
    z = ??\
\
17.  x = 3, y = 2;\
    z = x << 1 > 5;\
    z = ?\
\
18. difference between && and "and" ?\
\
\
19. Which of the following method are accepted for assignment?\
    a) 5 = a = b = c = d;\
    b) a = b = c = d = 5;\
    c) a = b = 5 = c = d;\
    d) None of the mentioned\
\
\
20. What will be printed out on stdout.\
  p = 10, q = 20\
  if (r = p = 5 || q > 20)\
    puts r\
  else\
    puts ("No Output\\n");\
\
21.\
  a = 2 , b = 0;\
  y = (b == 0) ? a :(a > b) ? (b = 1): a;\
  y = ?\
\
22. Change '-300' to 300\
\
23. 1/5 = ?; -1/5 = ?\
\
24.\
    5.0 == 5 ?\
    5.0.equal?(5) ?\
\
25. how will you convert string to numberic?\
\
26. What is variable ?\
\
27. In Ruby variable is an Object. Is it True ?\
\
28.\
    a = 9\
    b = a\
    b = 10\
    now, b = ?\
\
29. a = 'Hello'\
    b = ' World'\
    c = a\
    c = 'Bye'\
    puts a << b\
    What will  be printed out?\
\
30. a = 10, b = 25\
    How will you swap a and b values without using any temprory variable.\
    After swapping, a should be 25 and b should be 10.\
\
31. What is keyword ? What is the difference between keywrod & method\
\
32. Difference between ==, ===, eql? and equal?\
\
33. Write a false program, it should give you the error message "NoMethodError: undefined method `+' for nil:NilClass'`"\
\
34. Write a false program to raise any syntax error\
\
35. Write a false program to raise an error like "TypeError: can't convert nil into String"\
\
\
\
Answer All the questions below: (1 x 30)\
1. Algorithm: the number of trailing zeros in a factorial of a given number\
}